431 Lab X
================
Last Edit: 2021-09-29 14:56:15

Lab 08 is a bonus lab, which consists of building a professional
website.

# Background

Our TA Wyatt Bensken built his own [website](https://wyattbensken.com)
using R, RStudio, and RMarkdown. We decided it would be a worthwhile
opportunity for others, who wish to gain some bonus points, to build
their own professional website. Not only will this give you some
additional practice coding and using R and R-adjacent tools, it’s a
low-cost and potentially high-yield method to establish your
professional presence online.

Wyatt wrote more about his motivation and experience building the
website in [this blog
post](https://wyattbensken.com/post/building-website/). His blog post
also walks through how he built his site.

# Instructions and Guidance

We want you to build a professional looking website that will be useful
to you. The content is up to you, and what you’d like to share but it’s
worth considering using this opportunity to craft your online presence.

There is a tutorial, which follows Wyatt’s approach, written by Dan
Quintana [here](https://www.dsquintana.blog/free-website-in-r-easy/).
However, in 2020 Dan updated his tutorial to use Visual Studio Code
instead, which can be found
[here](https://www.dsquintana.blog/create-an-academic-website-free-easy-2020/).
Follow whichever approach is best for you and you feel most comfortable
with, or use the web to find some other options for how to best do this
sort of thing using R or another tool that is available to you. The key
thing is to commit to making this a part of your life going forward,
however you most effectively do that.

# Submitting your Website

Submit a link to your website to Dr. Love in an email with the subject
line **My Website** by the deadline specified in [the Course
Calendar](https://thomaselove.github.io/431/calendar.html).
