431 Lab Z
================
Last Edit: 2021-11-16 22:03:35

Lab Z is a bonus lab, which consists of building a table which can tell
us something about the favorite movies data.

# Instructions and Guidance

Using tables, much like figures, can teach us something about our data.
One helpful R package for building publication-worthy tables is
[gt](https://gt.rstudio.com/). We would like you to use the favorite
movies data, which can be found in our class GoogleDrive, to teach us
something about these data.

-   Use the **431_favorite_movies_2021-10-16** data set on our Shared
    Google Drive as your source of data.

You must use at least 3 of the variables in the dataset, and produce a
single helpful and visually pleasing table using
[gt](https://gt.rstudio.com/). Your table should then be accompanied by
a paragraph of no more than 150 words that describes the key findings in
your table.

-   We are not asking you to do any inferential analyses. Tables or
    submissions which discuss p-values will not be accepted.

# Submitting your Table and Paragraph

Submit your complete R Markdown code and HTML final document by the
deadline specified in [the Course
Calendar](https://thomaselove.github.io/431/calendar.html) to
[Canvas](https://canvas.case.edu/) in the Lab Z section of the
Assignments.

Your submitted R Markdown document should import the raw data from the
Google Sheet, make any necessary manipulations to the data set and then
present your tables, with appropriate titles/labels and a caption, as
you desire, followed by your paragraph discussing the table.

The HTML result must come directly from your R Markdown code.

## Grading Impact

Successful submission of Lab Z will help your course grade by increasing
your score on the element of the course (labs, quizzes or projects)
where your score is lowest, assuming at least one of them is below the
standard for an A in the course. If all are above that standard, then
Lab Z will increase your class participation score.

Lab Z is worth the same amount as Lab Y in this regard. Labs Y and Z
combined are worth as much as Lab X. You can submit any or all of Labs
X, Y and Z, but no late work will be accepted.
