431 Lab Y
================
Last Edit: 2021-11-16 21:56:02

Lab Y is a bonus lab, which consists of building a beautiful figure.

# Instructions and Guidance

By now in the course you have learned a great deal about the importance
of visualization to explore data. We would like you, using ggplot, to
build a **very** well-designed figure which can teach us something about
the favorite movies data on our class Shared Google Drive.

-   Use the **431_favorite_movies_2021-10-16** data set on our Shared
    Google Drive as your source of data.

You must use **at least** 3 of the variables in the data set, and you
must produce a single interesting visualization. This visualization must
“stand alone” which means we will not grade or read any accompanying
text, beyond the title/subtitle and a caption of no more than 100 words,
to help us understand the figure.

-   You can use the `patchwork` library to stitch together multiple
    plots into your single visualization, but each plot should have a
    meaningful title (and/or subtitle.)
-   We would be delighted to see people generate plots using methods not
    studied in 431, including animated plots.

# Submitting your Visualization

Submit a single visualization with your complete R Markdown code and
HTML final document by the deadline specified in [the Course
Calendar](https://thomaselove.github.io/431/calendar.html) to
[Canvas](https://canvas.case.edu/) in the Lab Y section of the
Assignments.

Your submitted R Markdown document should import the raw data from the
Google Sheet, make any necessary manipulations to the data set and then
present your figure, with appropriate titles/labels and a caption, as
you desire. The HTML result must come directly from the R Markdown code.

## Grading Impact

Successful submission of Lab Y will help your course grade by increasing
your score on the element of the course (labs, quizzes or projects)
where your score is lowest, assuming at least one of them is below the
standard for an A in the course. If all are above that standard, then
Lab Y will increase your class participation score.

Lab Y is worth the same amount as Lab Z in this regard. Labs Y and Z
combined are worth as much as Lab X. You can submit any or all of Labs
X, Y and Z, but no late work will be accepted.
